
User can add new recipients
Efforts:

(1) User interface layout design for portrait mode & Landscape mode - C
(2) Mandatory Field validation - A
(3) To implement functionality to dynamically update user interface to add new mobile number. - C
(4) To implement functionality to dynamically update user interface to add new Email Address   - C
(5) To implement functionality to dynamically update user interface to delete existing mobile number.  C
(6) To implement functionality to dynamically update user interface to delete existing Email Address  C
(7)To implement functionality to add a receipient from contacts. - C
(8)To implement Webservice  communication to post the added receipient information   - A
(9)To implement Unit test cases  - A  
(10)To implemenet UI test cases  - C
(11)Unit Testing - A
(12)Defect fixing  - C




Assumptions:
(1) To implement user interface as is in iOS screens. Efforts may vary for  Native Android User interface .
(2) To implement functionality as is in existing  iOS functionality.Efforts vary for a change in functionality.
(3) Support for Android OS versions 6,7,8
(4) No support for local DB
(5) Mandatory validation for Firstname,LastName,atleast one mobile number,email before saving data to webserver. Efforts vary for a change in functionality in Add/Edit Receipents screens


 User can edit existing recipient information:
(1) User interface layout design for portrait mode & Landscape mode - C
(2)Mandatory validation for Firstname,LastName,atleast one mobile number,email - A
(3) To implement functionality to dynamically update user interface to add new mobile number and save it. - C
(4) To implement functionality to dynamically update user interface to add new Email Address and save it  - C
(5) To implement functionality to dynamically update user interface to delete existing mobile number and save it.  C
(6) To implement functionality to dynamically update user interface to delete existing Email Address and save it  C
(7)To implement functionality to add a receipient from contacts. - C
(8)Fetch selected recipient info through webservice call - C
(9) populate received recipientsto respective user interface elements as user interface changes dynamically based on response. - C
(10)To implement Unit test cases  - A  
(11)To implemenet UI test cases  - C
(12)Unit Testing - A
(13)Defect fixing  - C



